Object Linking and Embedding
Another popular client-side
attack against Microsoft Office
abuses Dynamic Data Exchange, or DDE,
to execute arbitrary applications
from within Office documents,
but this has been patched
since December of 2017.
However, we can still leverage OLE
to abuse Microsoft Office’s
document-embedding feature.
Windows batch files are an older format,
often replaced by more modern
Windows native scripting languages
such as VBScript and PowerShell.
However, batch scripts are still
fully functional even on Windows 10
and can be used to
execute applications.
We will create an initial
proof-of-concept batch script,
launch.bat, that launches cmd.exe.
To insert this script into a
document, we'll open Microsoft Word,
create a new document,
navigate to the Insert ribbon,
and click the Object menu.
From here, we will choose
the Create from File tab
and select our newly-created batch script.
We can also change the appearance of the
batch file within the Word document
to make it look more benign.
To do this, we will recreate
our .bat file link.
This time, before we click ‘OK’, we simply
check the ‘Display as icon’ check box,
which brings up the menu box,
allowing us to make changes.
Even though this is an
embedded batch file,
Microsoft allows us to pick a different
icon for it and enter a caption,
which is what the victim will see,
rather than the actual file name.
We choose the icon for Microsoft
Excel along with a name of ReadMe.xls
to fully mask the batch file in an
attempt to lower the victim’s suspicions.
After accepting the menu options,
the batch file is embedded in
the Microsoft Word document.
Next, the victim must be
tricked into double-clicking it,
and accepting the security warning.
As soon as the victim accepts the
warning, cmd.exe is launched.
Although this grants command execution our
ultimate goal is to leverage PowerShell,
which is a more elegant solution.
This time, the conversion is very simple,
and we can simply change cmd.exe
to the previously-used Base64-encoded
invocation of PowerShell.
In oder for our edited batch
file to be executed,
we must re-embed it into our
docment with a new object.
Before executing our batch file we once
again establish our netcat listener.
After embedding the updated batch file,
double-clicking our ‘ReadMe.doc’ file,
and clicking through the
resultant warning,
we receive a working reverse shell
in our waiting NetCat listener.
Nice.